okay Jax kalpana here you're cooking
with jack on part two of my mom is great
series this is something my mom made
it's very inexpensive a lot of you may
be out of work just trying to make the
dollar stretch the end of the month
whatever it is this has a lot of flavor
very inexpensive cost maybe five dollars
to make the whole thing and you'll have
tons of it so and there's variations so
if you don't like what i do you can
throw some extra in i'll show you what
those are as we go along okay all you
need to get started the very basic
recipe here's one can of kidney beans
the red kidney beans one thing of tomato
puree and one pound of elbow macaroni
and see this here this is my mom's
original spaghetti pot that's right it's
got all the dings all the scratch marks
there's my mom's pot and I saw the lid
for it too which is all dented but it
always stays better when it's in mom's
pot okay so let's take a look here we're
gonna bring you into the stove we're
just gonna show you how to put this
together if you had pasta fazool before
you will know like at Olive Garden
they put ground pork in it or ground
beef in it you can make different
variations
I have no meat in this recipe for you
vegetarians out there they don't want
meat or can't have it or you're allergic
to it or whatever it is so you can add
meat to this not a problem it'll be just
as good even more delicious more flavor
you know with the kidney beans first
thing to go in you want all the juice
and everything okay so just pour the
kidney beans in there there you go if
you like kidney beans you put a second
can in you want to throw white beans in
there go ahead that's where you can make
your variations I have the light red
beans do whatever you want okay then
you're just gonna take this over the
sink and rinse it out not a full can of
water but just kind of swish it around
to get all that flavor out of the can
here we go don't forget the recipes down
below so you know what to write this
down we're gonna pour the puree in
then we're gonna start filling up the
cans of water okay we're gonna put in a
few cans of water once again check below
for the amount of water but we're gonna
get all that goodness out of there and
we're gonna add some water to the soup
all right once again here's your
variation I put in five cans of water
cuz that's with the recipe asks for and
I'm used to that if you like it stronger
leave one of the cans of water out okay
makes it thicker soup and much more
flavor okay now it's time to put in some
oregano and when I always do always tap
it tap the side you don't glop too much
you're looking at about one to one and a
half to two tablespoons and there's the
basil there we go now here's the key
this is another another interesting part
of my mom's soup she didn't put a lot of
salt in she just put a little bit in she
always told us you're gonna have to salt
it at the table so this will need salt
but just put a little bit of salt in
there just to bring up the flavors but I
promise you at the table you won't want
to add salt and just a little black
pepper there you go
I got the wet garlic so I'm gonna do two
heaping tablespoons because we're
Italian whoops sorry about that there we
go beautiful get all the garlic off the
spoon - this is a fresh ingredient I
like to put in my mom used to do dried
dried minced onions but I'm just doing
fresh so be sure to put in some onions -
into the end of the batch okay and then
just let that simmer you're gonna if
that simmer like a soup so once it
starts bubbling and boiling all the
flavors get together you should be good
to go The Onion's will soften up while
you're waiting for it to simmer get this
going let's get the macaroni cook cuz
this ain't gonna take long
macaroni is probably taking longer so
get that water boiling and let's get the
elbow macaroni cook - okay first thing
we're gonna do we got the macaroni all
cooked I'm gonna put some of the
macaroni in the bowl then you steal some
of the soup with a big ladle
now you can cook this down a little bit
more if you want a thicker but I'm
making it how mom made it tastes amazing
you got a taste in make sure there's any
doesn t any salt or pepper may need a
little bit more salt but one of the
things we did is kids little Tabasco he
that's right
Tabasco sauce is amazing oh my goodness
I feel like I'm ten years old again this
is an amazing comfort food once again
it's inexpensive on plate home I want to
get a clean e-beam right there there we
go it's really good if you like it
thicker I would add paste or just cook
it down longer I like it a little soupy
so it's really good mm-hmm mmm oh yeah
that Tabasco just comes right out it's
really good bread and butter
I even sprinkle cheese on top melts and
cheese on top it's awesome now don't
forget next week's our big episode
that's right it's my short rib marinade
excuse me
it's my mom's sort of marinade recipe
not suppose to give it away but I'm
giving away the formula I was gonna
bottle this but you know what in
celebration of how great my mom is I'm
giving you our marinade recipe been
doing it for years mm-hmm all right be
ready next week's gonna be exciting I'll
see on the next cooking with Jack take
care I'll see on the next Jack on the go
it's gonna be awesome I can't wait
Wow I feel like I'm 10 years old again
except I wasn't holding it burning my
hand
sorry sorry everybody
oh we're filming oh sorry
hey how are ya Jack Scott finding here
you're cooking with Jack on the mama
mama-mama ma-ma-ma-ma-ma
oh mama mom all giddy up elvira shut up
you